#summary Installation and configuration
#labels Featured

= Prerequisites =

The `tinymce` application requires *Django 1.0* or higher. You will also need [http://tinymce.moxiecode.com/download.php TinyMCE] version 3.0 or higher and optionally a [http://tinymce.moxiecode.com/language.php language package] for your projects languages. If you want to use the [http://wiki.moxiecode.com/index.php/TinyMCE:Plugins/spellchecker spellchecker plugin] using the supplied view (no PHP needed) you must install the [http://pyenchant.sourceforge.net/ PyEnchant] package and dictionaries for your project languages.

= Installation =

  # Download or checkout the `tinymce` application into your Python path. (Django adds your project directory to the path, so you may add it as a project subdirectory.)
    * Download: [http://code.google.com/p/django-tinymce/downloads/list the latest release]
    * Checkout: `svn checkout http://django-tinymce.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/tinymce`
  # Copy the `jscripts/tiny_mce` directory from the TinyMCE distribution into a directory named `js` in your media root. You can override the location in your settings (see below).
  # If you want to use the TinyMCE compressor, copy `tinymce/media/tiny_mce_gzip.js` from django-tinymce into the same directory as `tiny_mce.js` from the previous step.
  # If you want to use any of the views add `tinymce` your installed applications list and URLconf:

`settings.py`:
{{{
INSTALLED_APPS = (
    ...
    'tinymce',
    ...
)
}}}

`urls.py`:
{{{
urlpatterns = patterns('',
    ...
    (r'^tinymce/', include('tinymce.urls')),
    ...
)
}}}

= Configuration =

The application can be configured by editing the project's `settings.py` file.

*`TINYMCE_JS_URL`* (default: `settings.MEDIA_URL + 'js/tiny_mce/tiny_mce.js'`)
  The URL of the TinyMCE javascript file.

* `TINYMCE_DEFAULT_CONFIG`* (default: `{'theme': "simple"}`)
  The default TinyMCE configuration to use. See [http://wiki.moxiecode.com/index.php/TinyMCE:Configuration the TinyMCE manual] for all options.

* `TINYMCE_SPELLCHECKER`* (default: `False`)
   Whether to use the spell checker through the supplied view. You must add `spellchecker` to the plugin list yourself, it is not added automatically.

* `TINYMCE_COMPRESSOR`* (default: `False`)
   Whether to use the TinyMCE compressor, which gzips all Javascript files into a single stream.  This makes the overall download size 75% smaller and also reduces the number of requests. The overall initialization time for TinyMCE will be reduced dramatically if you use this option.

Example:
{{{
TINYMCE_JS_URL = 'http://debug.example.org/tiny_mce/tiny_mce_src.js'
TINYMCE_DEFAULT_CONFIG = {
    'plugins': "table,spellchecker,paste,searchreplace",
    'theme': "advanced",
}
TINYMCE_SPELLCHECKER = True
TINYMCE_COMPRESSOR = True
}}}


= What's next =

Go to the [Usage] page to find out how to use `tinymce`.